can you really rank a website without
writing content most people have a hard
time creating content and even when they
write some content their websites may
not be getting lots of traffic so is
there really a way to rank a website
without writing content
hey everyone i'm neil patel and today
i'm going to break down how you can rank
a website without writing content
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
here's a quick step for you 82 percent
of marketers report actively using
content and marketing in 2021. that's up
from 70 from the previous year according
to hubspot now i don't have the current
version numbers or stat when it comes
out and people are leveraging content
marketing but that's still a crazy stat
content marketing works amazingly well
but it's going to get more and more
competitive every year as marketers
start giving it
more focus in their mix
look the best time for opportunity is
for you to start leveraging content now
and i remember when i started content
marketing years and years ago i'm
talking about 10 plus years ago wasn't
as competitive there also wasn't as much
search volume in google but it worked
like a charm i could write any mediocre
piece of content and boom you can rank
on page one of google build a little bit
of links rank even in the top three
nowadays you can have the best piece of
content you can have a lot of links it
doesn't guarantee the rankings
look the answer is when you're doing seo
as your main strategy to gain traffic
then yes writing content is king
you can still rank a website without
content you know if you have some
content that's good enough but you need
some form of it keep this in mind if
your page has no text at all google
won't really know what your page is
about
you still need content your title your
headings your call to actions maybe a
paragraph here or there that's all
examples of content but the point i'm
trying to get is you don't necessarily
need to write hundreds of blog posts to
necessarily get tons of seo traffic it
doesn't hurt
it actually helps but it doesn't mean
that you won't have any traffic if you
don't write tons of content and if you
hate writing content you're bad at it or
you just don't have enough time to do it
yourself there's always ways to ramp up
your content without necessarily writing
it and
if you're getting started and you want
to learn how to do content marketing to
skyrocket your traffic i have another
video that walks you through that
process you can just look on my youtube
channel i actually have more than
another video i have tons of videos well
first off let's dive right in on how you
can start getting traction without
really writing content
so the first thing you can do is test
new titles aka your headlines and see if
you can improve your click-through rate
on google search console you can also
use tools like click flow now here's an
example of how that's powerful rand
fishkin years and years ago told
everyone to google best grilled steak or
variation of that and click on the
second result or actually it was maybe
the fourth result i don't have the notes
in front of me but i do remember and
what ended up happening is that site
went from being let's say number four to
number one and it also started ranking
higher for other keywords that's an
example of higher click-through rates
and the way he got those clicks is he
told people on twitter to go do a search
click on the first result click the back
button and then go click on roughly the
fourth result and then boom in less than
a few hours it popped up to the top
but here's the thing you can't do that
because it's not scalable for your own
site he more so did a free experiment
but you can test your title right try to
make it more appealing get that
creativity going so then that way you
can get more clicks
another thing that you can do and this
doesn't involve writing more content is
actually removing some content is remove
cannibalizing content in other words
when you consolidate content on the same
topic or roughly the same topic you'll
start doing better for example i was
always wondering neil
why don't i rank so high for this
keyword seo
well i may not rank high for this
keyword called seo because i may have 20
articles that say beginner's guide to
seo how to get started in seo how seo
works you get how they're pretty much
all the same thing that's when you need
to consult it and when you do that your
rankings start getting better i did that
and now i'm on page one for the term seo
see when you're consolidating you want
to see which one is best what's already
getting majority of the seo traffic has
majority of the backlinks that's the one
that you typically want to use and then
you want to fold otherwise into it
and when you do that redirect the other
ones that aren't doing that well and do
it through a 301 redirect
another thing you can do is just find
new internal linking opportunities
whenever you're touching a subject
that's related to another page on your
website and turn the link to that page
don't focus too much on the exact anchor
text just focus on relevancy and what's
best for the user getting more internal
link juice flowing to those pages will
cause them to rank harder
and use schema and structured markup
you heard about faq page schema you can
also use tools like uber says to find
out which serp features are present in
the search results for the keyword that
you're targeting and if you notice that
there's a certain type of search feature
that's ranking for a keyword that you
should start optimizing for other
similar keywords with structured markups
that'll help you get there
some examples of that are review
structure markup product markup offer
markup local business markup
now another thing that i want you to do
is keep in mind that more people
search google on mobile devices than
their desktop devices you want to make
sure that your website is responsive
that way whether someone has a big
mobile device or a small one your
website shows up clearly you also want
to use accelerated mobile pages or amp
so then that way
your pages that are content based load
faster for mobile load time
and if you want content that you don't
want to write you can either go to the
pro blogger job board and hire writers
or you can just work with guest
contributors we did this with crazy egg
crazy is one of my older companies we
hired a small writing team they did
their seo research their keyword
research competitive research they even
outlined contents and we had content
writers and facts searching and we used
stats to back up all our points and
guess what happened with crazy
we ended up generating over 200 000
visitors a month purely because of all
those guest contributors
and another thing that you can do if you
want to do really well we did a strategy
on crazy egg is find people who can go
create compelling images like
infographics or can find interesting
images out there and create them
themselves using tools like canva and
this is what we call visual content or
infographics it's a really simple way to
make complex information easier to
understand
if you do that not only will people link
to it
but your audience is going to be really
happy and you're gonna start seeing all
your other content rank higher
the last piece of feedback i have for
you is use other platforms beyond seo in
your content marketing mix
podcast great form of content you can
actually transcribe the podcast into
text without doing much work
video content publish it on youtube your
social properties repurpose it heck just
bust out a phone and record yourself
you can also publish lightweight
educational content on social media
platforms through things like image care
shells or short videos dumbing down
complex ideas or attention-grabbing
images with long-form text descriptions
on social media platforms like instagram
linkedin or even facebook if you follow
all that you'll start getting some
traction even if you're not writing tons
of content and if you have the honor and
the privilege to do so either go hire
the writers or start writing it yourself
because more content does help even
though it doesn't mean you have to write
content to rank if you want more traffic
like not
thousands of videos i'm talking about
millions and millions and millions of
visitors eventually you're gonna have to
create tons of content but it doesn't
mean it's the end of the world if you
can't there's still some solutions out
there like the ones i described today
and if you just need help and want my
team to do all this for you check out my
ad agency np digital where we just help
companies with their content marketing
seo in essence all forms of their
digital marketing if you enjoy the video
like it share it tell people about it
you got any questions leave a comment
below i'm here to help thank you for
watching